Okay, we're back on. Okay, back for just a moment. Do you pronounce it Lilith or Lilith, that first book of Lilith?
Lilith.
Lilith, I thought so. Okay.
That's the first book that supposedly Adams other lover, you know. It's an apocryphal book of the Bible.
Okay, the question I want to ask about, I guess this is asking an author what he meant by something. I'll try not to put it in those terms, but you have these two, I guess, societies.
The big one, the Confederacy, which is technological and everybody conforms, they look alike, they think alike.
On the other hand, you have the Society on Lilith where everybody is not only are the individuals, and not only do they not have any technology, but they are literally one with their environment because of the warden organism.
I detected a great deal of sympathy on your part for that type of society. You know, an anti-technological one.
Of course. Well, no. No, absolutely not.
I'm under no circumstances anti-technological.
I am not in any way anti-technological.
I'm a big booster. I'm a great believer, for example, that genius can't be put back in models and most cases shouldn't be.
What I am saying is that any technology developed, history shows, I'm a historian, I'm trained in history.
History shows that any technological development that can be misused will be, and that it can also be used positively.
And what we have is a politics, bureaucracy, and so on will tend to misuse it, but that they can never stamp out the individualism or the independence.
I think I'm very optimistic of the fact that the human spirit always comes through.
My people win, and they sometimes win with very sophisticated technological methods.
What I'm really saying is that most of these futuristic civilizations are using technology to develop a least common denominator society,
or lowest common denominator society.
That is, it's the same thing when I was teaching.
I mean, they would throw these enormous classes at me, and some of these people would be extremely advanced and extremely intelligent,
and some of these people would be barely literate and unable to think for the next minute, let alone the next or the last hundred years.
And you have the problem if you have a complete mix of these kind of things, you have the question of who do you teach to?
It's too large to signal out the exceptions.
I mean, when you're dealing with 160, 180 people, it's very difficult to teach to a dozen different levels.
It's all at the same time.
And you're almost forced into the lowest common denominator teaching standard as long as you've got the situation.
One of the great crises of American education.
A society totally sincere socialist society has much the same problems,
and that they must address the lowest common denominator for all of their people.
You know, you start with the basics and so on, but you really have nothing for the exceptional people without compromising your principles.
Of course, what the socialist society does, they compromise their principles.
They give privileges and extra pay and car and watches in the country, too.
They're exceptional people.
But if you don't compromise your principles and a larger group that you have to deal with,
the less compromise you can have, the more you're addressed to this.
And this is exactly what most of my future societies have.
They just take current technology and they say, you know, these are not evil societies.
If you take, these are very well-meaning societies.
But they address, what they want to do is make everyone the same.
They want to make everybody equal.
They want to make, and in order to make everybody equal, you must make everyone the lowest common denominator.
So I'm not even saying that it's a misuse of technology.
It is simply the result of this idea.
Everybody's going to say, oh, are you the monarchist or something?
No, he's not.
But all I am saying is that as long as you're forced, you're literally forced under this philosophy to go for the lowest common denominator,
and that this is going to extinguish the human spirit.
But they can't extinguish it.
It keeps popping back up.
And given an opportunity, it will pop back up.
In the case of the Warden Diamond, you have it populated with the nonconformists,
the ones that the system could not do.
Some of these people should have really been executed.
I mean, they're really psycho and they're really weird and they're really awful kind of people.
And others are simply political dissidents, people who just simply cannot fit.
And in the third book in the series, which is not out yet, which is much, much more complex and much more involved and much darker than the first two,
we have at one point a character who says that they formed a core of a fastened secret police and so on
to ferret out those who simply could not be adapted to the system.
And they were sent here and they thought it was going to be a temporary thing.
They thought that after a couple of hundred years this could be phased out.
But no matter what they've done, no matter how many people they've tracked down, killed, reeducated, or exiled to the Warden Diamond,
no matter what they've done, there's always somebody else.
They just keep popping up because you can't repress it.
It's going to be there.
The most unremittingly depressing version of this is the well world confett...
Not confetter, let's see, what is that?
Generation?
Yeah, or something like that.
After sixteen books you get to the point where you don't remember what you used.
But that's probably the most unremittingly depressing where they've gone even to the common denominator one better.
They're genetically breeding everybody identically, this kind of thing.
And the fact is that on those worlds you really don't have people popping up,
but in the people who go between those worlds you do.
They're sort of immune from this.
There's also the theory in all the books that as long as you have a frontier, you can never totally suppress humanity.
Yeah, I think that was the calm worlds in the well world series, brother.
I think that's what it was.
Yeah, okay, yeah, alright, that's fine.
I suspect a little bit that that agent, the one who's monitoring all this, is starting to change some of his values because of what he's...
Exactly what the part of what the book is about is that we have a sort of surrogate him down on each of these worlds,
who starts off pretty much or almost identical to him.
And he's following this whole thing with his whole system of values, beliefs, and so on.
And he's watching the surrogates change into quite different people.
And it begins to eat away at his own sense of value, his own sense of duty.
As a matter of fact, in the third book he begins to realize that the people who sent him there on this mission anticipated this.
And that his computer detective aide, who he has dialogues with and discusses everything with,
may be more than that, it may be something of a watchdog.
And he starts to have problems in figuring out how he's going to get around this computer.
And of course in the fourth book he's going to have to because he's going to have, in the end, he's going to have all the pieces together.
And he's going to have to really have it in his hand, the fate of millions, maybe billions of people.
And he's going to have to decide how to balance this all out with the way he's now looking at things.
And it's going to be a tremendous challenge.
And I know it's going to be something of a challenge to write it.
I do think that the solution to the entire thing is, I don't like cop-outs.
I don't like stringing people along and then not delivering.
You will get real, I don't know whether you can say flesh and blood, but something, aliens.
And whatever they're made of, you will meet the aliens.
You will have a face down and the solution to the whole thing and exactly what's going on is quite bizarre.
And I don't think anybody's going to figure it out.
And causes an even greater problem.
Aliens are, of course, the most fun thing to do and also the most difficult to do well.
Yeah, you said, oh, I'm sorry, go ahead.
Oh, sorry.
I mean, after all, we have something like the Well of Souls, since we have everybody starting from common denominator, Markovian.
We can assume a lot of things in common between all of these races, no matter how weird they are.
But we can't do that with a truly alien race.
I think the best alien race I ever drew is coming up in a book from Pocket Books this July called The Identity Matrix,
which is not really a book about aliens at all.
It's a somewhat contemporary political thriller about mind control.
But within it, it does have aliens who have the ability to body switch.
And I think I've addressed for the first time how and why an alien society would develop such a system.
It's an old gimmick.
It's been used many times.
Aliens are among us making change bodies with it.
But what would cause a race to evolve or develop such a thing?
And this is addressed and answered and shown within the book.
I'm very proud of those aliens.
Okay, that's out in July, huh?
Yeah, that's going to shock a few people.
It has all sorts of geeky sex and all sorts of bizarre things and so on happening within it.
And if anyone, well the moral majority will hate that book.
What's the other one?
But what it actually does is it addresses, it's not the book you think you're reading when you start.
If you start reading the book you will say, oh it's another, aliens are among us and they can body switch that book.
And it's not.
It's a story about what would happen if the United States government discovered that there were aliens among us and that they could body switch.
But what any government does?
You have a crash program, right?
You have a crash program to find out how they do it.
You take the best people, you take the best everything, the best computers, the best experts, biophysics, biochemistry, computer science and so on.
You put them all together with an unlimited budget and you keep it very, very secret so that your brain doesn't get paranoid.
You know, body snatchers and all that.
It turns out the aliens aren't even interested in us, they just drop fire cages.
They're totally irrelevant.
But they crack the code.
They crack, they never figure out how the aliens do it but they figure out another way to do it.
Because once you demonstrate to the scientists that something can be done, he's going to figure out a way to do it.
Given the proper money and material.
And they do crack it.
And once you can take this information and go from line to line using a digital encoding system.
And it's a very tricky process because you can't, you can only take selective parts of the brain.
You can't, otherwise you're going to stop heart, you're going to stop lungs, you know, all the autonomic services.
And then, so once they can take selectively the information they want, store it and then feed it into a different place.
They have the capacity not only to store, they have the capacity to edit.
And once they have the capacity to edit, they can change your mind any way you want to.
And naturally this is not necessarily in charge, being run by dirty types.
This is being run by middle level government bureaucrats.
And so the Washington Post discovers this and they don't try and cover it up.
They invite the Washington Post supporters out.
They give the Washington Post supporter a demonstration and nothing appears in the paper.
And Congress bought the appropriations for things there.
I'm not quite sure what's going on out there.
So they invite the committee out, give them a demonstration.
Then the committee comes and goes back, decides it's super secret, doesn't tell us all, and passes all the appropriations you want.
And so on.
That's what the public's about.
Okay, yeah, that sounds interesting.
Let me change direction for just a second.
I'm sure you've spoken on this or written on this or thought about this great deal.
What draws people to science fiction?
Basically, I think that all people, Gene Roddenberry was one of them who pointed out the fact that you can do any type of novel, any type of story that you want.
As science fiction or fantasy.
That is, you can do a serious political novel.
You can do a social commentary.
You can do all sorts of serious stuff with science fiction and make it both more palatable and more comfortable to people because you set it in the far future or you put on, you put these interviews onto an alien race and it becomes easier for people to take.
So that's the appeal to writing is that you have the ability to write any kind of book you want to write within its context.
And you can be as subtle or as broad as you want it so on.
It has a lot more freedom than the contemporary novel.
Really, you've got very rigid screen.
Then on the other hand, why people pick up science fiction fantasy, I think, is because first and foremost, because they want an escape.
Because they really don't like, you know, I mean, you look at the evening news, you read the papers, you know, 20 dead in El Salvador this morning.
15 house fires set by Matt Arsenault's downtown.
Rape is up, you know, all of this kind of thing.
They're scared to go down the street in many of the cities so on these days after dark.
Seems like problems, problems, problems, unemployment lines.
And then you can pick up science fiction fantasy and you can jump into that other world.
And you can become a part of it and you can be what's something else, be somewhere else.
So it's the ultimate escape literature.
And of course, once we've got you in the escape literature, then we sneak in with serious stuff.
Okay, then you do see it as having some value in terms of, oh, significance, say, social significance or something like that.
Oh, absolutely. I think that a great deal of contemporary science fiction and fantasy is very much dealing with people, dealing with universals.
You can, it's dealing, one of my best examples of this is if you go back to Dickens,
Dickens wrote serious social commentary on the time.
He was after the Union workhouses. He was after the terrible misuse of Trump labor and all these terrible things and all these social causes.
He addressed social causes a lot. Almost none of these social causes are relevant today.
The conditions of Oliver Twitz just don't exist right now.
We may have our own different things, but those issues that concerned him no longer concerned us, and yet we read and enjoy Dickens.
And the reason why we do is because he addressed something beyond his social cause.
First of all, he gave us plots and characters that we can involve ourselves into.
Second of all, he sat down and he addressed something that we can recognize.
There are universals in there, greed, bureaucracy, good, evil, right, wrong, all of these universal things.
You know, what should and shouldn't be done that transcend his time and his personal causes of that time.
And I think that serious writers of science fiction and fantasy are very much in the same situation.
The further away we get from contemporary settings, the more we can deal with these universals, these problems, these questions.
And it is a very, very serious literature, not for everybody who writes it, but then again, that we check the best Sutter List lately.
And see how many serious novels you've actually got on the Sutter List.
But I think that a serious novelist with serious things to say can do it better, easier, and in a way more timeless in science fiction and fantasy than he can in the contemporary novel.
And I've written both and we'll write both again.
Okay, excellent. That's a fine answer.
Sort of related to that.
Usually when we talk to different authors, we always ask them their opinion on this particular subject.
There is a distinction, or at least people believe there is one, between so-called mainstream literature and science fiction.
Some authors believe it's simply something the publishing industry does, if there is no distinction.
Others think they should be kept separate.
Norman Spindrad thinks they are the same thing, they should not be separate.
Do you think that there is a distinction? Are there actually different kinds of literature, mainstream and science fiction, and should they be kept separate?
No, they aren't.
There's no way that you can. It is rather odd, though.
It's an ambivalent answer.
Clifford Simac once said that there is some difference because science fiction writers, you will find writing every other form of literature.
Mysteries, romances, mainstream war novels, you name it.
But when people who write other things try and write science fiction, they usually fall flat on their face.
But I'm not sure whether that just doesn't address the fact that people who, writers who are attracted to science fiction, simply have to have a little more versatility in a wider range than someone who is writing detective novels.
On the other hand, I really don't think there is any difference except what the publishers put on it.
For example, I've never seen the word science fiction or fantasy connected with Stephen King at all, and he is nothing if he is not a science fiction and fantasy writer almost exclusively.
Frank Herbert gets on the best-seller list with God Emperor of Thune.
So Farmer is on the best-seller list with, I mean, the regular best-seller list with some of the River World books, and McCaffrey got on with the White Dragon.
We take a look at some of these things. There is a very conscious effort on the part of publishers to differentiate, not just science fiction, but also called category fiction.
Because they feel that they feel more secure that way.
There is a bedrock of people who will buy science fiction.
And a bedrock of people who buy modern romance. And a bedrock of people who buy detective.
And if you can categorize them, you automatically have that base market that 30,000 or 40,000 people who buy that particular category.
And it's very comforting because it means that if they can categorize it and if they can make it easy for the people to find it in stores that way, that they will automatically reduce or minimize their potential losses.
They're starting off with a good bedrock.
On the other hand, you do find a conscious effort on the part of publishers to deny that science fiction or fantasy is science fiction or fantasy.
When they believe it has broader bestseller repeal. King is a very good example of that.
But not the only one. A Neville shoot. About 70% of Neville shoots work is basically science fiction. And yet you'll never see that.
You have an artificially created ghetto. But frankly, the only thing you notice is that if they are going for bestseller status deliberately, they simply try and remove all category labels when they market it and when they promote it.
But there really isn't that much difference. An awful lot of people write an awful lot of stuff. And some of it, a great deal of it is science fiction or fantasy. Whether or not it's categorized that way.
The ghettoization of it is strictly a marketing thing. Does that answer the question?
Yes, it does. And that leads nicely into my next one. I probably agree with what you say, but I don't think in any other field, any other category of fiction that I can think of is there such a unique relationship between readers and authors.
Conventions and fanatics that sometimes fans can be and so forth.
Well, fans are short for fanatics.
But that sort of relationship between working authors and the readers, through the conventions, through the mail, through the fanzines. No other field has that, does it?
Yeah, to an extent. Although I will admit that most of the other categories that have it were have it because people from science fiction who are also interested in that moved on.
The media oriented conventions, character conventions were all done by science fiction people. The comics conventions were all done by science fiction people.
There's a modern romance convention on Long Island, which has a lot of science fiction people involved, organizationally, and so on.
And there's a mystery convention every year that's done mostly by science fiction people.
I think that they're better organized at it because they've got 40 years practice. They know how to do it.
But on the other hand, I do kind of wonder whether or not we really have this as much as people think.
There are maybe 5,000 people worldwide who are active in a more than once a year type of situation or one event situation in the science fiction fandom.
And yet, you know, I saw many in copies.
There were the other 995 people. See what I mean?
Yeah.
The fact is that anybody who really depended on these started it up, which is something that is very hard sometimes for the science fiction fans to accept.
They do have a disproportionate influence, but only in one area.
They have a disproportionate influence in terms of the awards.
And that's the only area because it's the members of the World Science Fiction Convention, for example, each year that goes to Hugo, which are very prestigious awards.
It means a lot of money to science fiction writers.
How do they mean money, by the way?
The Hugo, because it's been around now so long and it's had so much publicity and it's been so well promoted by the industry, is generally recognized by the regular science fiction book mind public.
Most of them do not know how the Hugo is actually given.
Hello.
Yeah, I'm here.
Oh, okay. I just heard a quick there.
And as a result, the fact is that I remember one Hugo winner who said that when she got on a train to go home, she had her Hugo with her under her arms.
She wasn't going to let it go.
And they conduct her on the train.
He looked down and he said, isn't that a Hugo?
So, yeah, in other words, basically, obviously the conductor reads science fiction.
He recognized the award.
He just did not recognize.
He didn't know anything about how it was awarded or anything else, but he knew it was an enormously prestigious award.
Therefore, putting Hugo award winning author on the front of a book means that these non fans will recognize this as something single out of exceptional.
They will buy it.
It's worth quite a lot of money to someone who has not won one.
I doubt it seriously whether it would mean a dime to an Azimov or an Arthur Clark or Robert Heinlein.
You know, these people already have their white mark.
But it means an awful lot to particularly first time winners.
And it means that the publisher knows that by putting this on there, they're automatically going to have sales two or three times what they would have otherwise without even bothering to promote it.
And of course, you are going to promote it.
It gives you promotion money as well.
Which means that I believe somebody has estimated that the minimum worth for Hugo, the minimum worth is around $50,000.
Okay, that is interesting.
I'm going to pay for a $35 award.
Yeah, that is interesting.
From the point of view of a profession like yourself, is the nebula one to be more desired than the Hugo?
I think the Hugo is more desired.
I think the Hugo is, as I say, commercially recognized.
The nebula, unfortunately, it sounds great.
It's an award given by the science fiction writers to themselves.
But because it's such a small group that does it.
And because of an inordinately complex and ridiculous system of nominations and a lot of politicking, Oscar-style politicking and everything else,
it really boils down to leaks of friends being able to nominate themselves year after year.
And the nebula is quite often won by a mere 40 votes.
I would have thought that of the two awards, the Hugo would probably be given more on politics or caprice or such things like that.
No, because it's got a much wider base.
You may have thousands of votes.
And you know these votes are going to come both from the professional community, not only writers but editors, publishers, artists and so on.
But they're also going to come from the hardcore science fiction fans, the people who read this far more than the general public does.
The average person in this country buys what is it, six or seven books a year?
And we all know what those six or seven books are.
So we're talking about people who buy 20, 40, 50, maybe 100 science fiction books a year and read them.
And so the combination of that, several thousand people, it makes it, it makes leaking and politicking almost impossible.
Okay, let me get back to you for a minute before we finish up here.
I don't have too much more to ask.
By the way, I won't take either award.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Well, I don't see how you can miss on some of the things you've been writing. I really don't.
I've never been nominated.
Never even nominated?
No.
That's incredible.
I don't see how you can miss on this new series though. There must be something that's going to come out of that.
Well, we'll see.
You're not a prime, you're eligible.
And the fact is that many people, particularly the more serious ones, the likely voters, quite often wait until all the books in the series,
if it's a fixed series of four books, before they read it. By that time it's too late.
Yeah.
Okay, listen, but just a little bit here about your working habits.
So are you a disciplined writer or you work sort of erratically according to mood,
or how do you go about your actual writing process?
Whoops.
Yeah, I'm still here.
Yeah, that's a call coming in on another line.
Do you want to catch it?
If you can hold for just a minute.
Surely.
Hang on.
Sometimes these phones really get particular.
Okay, we got the tape rolling again. Go ahead.
Do you remember the question?
No.
How about your working habits, if you're a disciplined writer or erratically?
Yeah, I hear, I mean, I know Fred Paul and Roger's left me fairly well.
They have this rigid rule, they crank out so many words a day, either new or revision, you know,
and they're absolutely religious, break the can to another one like that.
And I can't do that.
There may be fairly long curious when I do nothing, and then I will go into a fair.
However, I'm always working.
I'm disciplined in the sense, maybe even more of a sense,
than some other writers in the sense that before I sit down as a typewriter,
I already know the whole book.
I approach books in the same way that Albert Hitchcock approached movies,
where you work out everything in advance.
You work it out in your head, you work it out until, by the time you get down to writing it,
it is mostly a mechanical exercise.
So somebody says, well gee, how long did it take you to write Midnight at the Wall of Souls?
Well, it took me five weeks to write.
It took me about a year between the concept and everything else.
By the time I had everything completely worked out and had the book solidly in my mind,
then I could sit down and write it, and then it took me five weeks to type it.
So there are long periods of time when I'm choosing which project to go next,
and then when I seize on one, I work it out, try and form it up, see what's ready to go,
then develop the entire thing, sketch it out on my mind and on crazy notepads, and you name it.
And when I finally got it pretty well completely worked out.
There may be a few gaps here and there, but the basics are all there.
Only then do I sit down and then it's better just simply typing out the book, and that goes pretty fast.
So I can sometimes do, using the system, I sometimes do 30, 40, 50 pages a day.
Yeah, okay.
But am I disciplined in the sense of writing every single thing? No, I'm not.
I find that if I try and write X number of words a day, every day, I wind up having to destroy most of the words.
Wait a time.
The time I get to sit down, there should be a minimal amount of rewriting.
You should read mostly my first draft because it should be right.
Yeah. Did you say a little while ago that you were working on a fantasy book right now?
Yeah.
Like pure fantasy, I mean.
Fantasy Quest book.
Although it's, since Four Lords is a pretty serious book, pretty serious set, I wanted to do something that was a bit less serious.
And I'm getting actually a little bit tired of fantasy Quest cliches.
And so I am writing a large, involved fantasy Quest novel in which things are not going to be the way anybody expects them.
And in which it will be more than a little bit cockeyed.
It will not be necessarily broad comedy.
And there'll be a lot of serious pastures, a lot of serious episodes in it.
I'm not going to make fun of fantasy as such, but I am going to make fun of all these people doing the same fantasy over and over again.
And people are going to be taken aback when they settle back very comfortably and then cover the things that aren't quite the way they imagine them.
I guess a good example would be one episode where I've got, where the hero, this is a very, very much an 80s type episode where the hero comes into the small village and all the young women trying to overthrow themselves,
adding them beg to be seduced and abandoned.
And it's some time before he realizes that it's not a sex appeal, but that a great dragon has been seen in the area.
Everybody knows the dragon's the eat only version.
And since it's a good and moral upstanding town, they can't get any help from the people there.
Because I have people there, what a virgin to sacrifice.
And as a result, every stranger that comes along gets propositioned.
Yeah, I imagine that'll be marketed as pure fantasy and some people will be a little surprised when they read it then, huh?
Yeah, well, yeah.
I'm naming it. I'm naming it at the fantasy market.
Although, of course, I have a large number of people who will buy anything with my name on it, which is nicely comfortable.
So I've done one fantasy before. I did it and the devil will drag you under.
So nobody's ever decided whether midnight at the Well of Souls is fantasy or science fiction and I let them play around with it because I don't really care.
Okay.
In this case, though, I'm deliberately, I mean, we'll have our dragons and our unicorns and everything else.
And we'll have our great classic fantasy quest and all the heroic battles and everything else.
Except as I say, it's not going to be quite the way everybody expects it to be.
Okay, let me change direction for just a minute. Now, we're just about running out of tape.
What about this is something that I always wonder about, not because I'm personally interested, but I've heard people say this before, that science fiction, the field is one of the best areas for a young writer to get into.
Well, it would normally be true. Normally.
Although, of course, I don't think that anyone can get into this field unless they're well grounded in it.
No science fiction fantasy very well, because they before they can go to the wider audience, they have got to reach that hardcore, that 30,000 readership.
Otherwise, they're going to get bought. And to do that, you've got to know your field very well.
Right now, of course, it's a time of cutbacks. I would not like to be a new writer starting right now.
Because, well, I'm having no trouble selling and say Norman's been wrapped up having no trouble selling. Certainly a number of other established professionals are having no trouble selling.
Newcomers, if they sell it all, they're going to sell for peanuts and they're going to get the responsible deal.
Because nobody's interested anymore. All the publishing companies are now owned by the Hollywood divisions of massive international conglomerates.
They're looking for a media type of deal. They're looking for best seller status. They're looking for people that are going to make money with minimum risk.
So the old established professionals have the advantage there.
And the newer writers, they're not really interested anymore in the newer generation of writers.
I've witnessed the fact that all the big money and all the big promotions are going to the people who've been writing for 30 years.
What about the magazines?
Well, certainly. I think the short fiction in, there's a good deal of opening.
And of course, that's a way in the back door if you do a large and successful fund of short fiction.
And you build your audience that way and then you can go with your novel to the publishers and say, I have the audience already.
I was John Broddy did and went that route. Joe Haldeman went that route.
And that's an exceptionally good route.
Sure, in the web it's about to do that route sometimes.
There's the Ritkel. Just start creating the novel.
Novels are the only way you can make money. You cannot make money doing short fiction.
But you can establish a strong reputation in the short fiction.
And they're certainly wide open to new faces.
Analog and Azamog in particular are always interested in new faces because they have to fill a specific amount of space every single month.
They have 13 issues a year because of their schedule.
And it's awful a lot when you've got to fit in short stories, novelettes, mix them all together.
So yeah, they're open and they're interested.
So the field is open. The trouble is, of course, there are only really three magazines and a few peripheral magazines where you can do it.
They're just hard enough to place.
Azamog, Analog and Fantasy and Science Fiction are the three primary in the field markets to build a reputation.
There's Omni, of course, but they only buy two stories a month.
And you can imagine the amount of stories they get.
And then back over in Arizona there's Amazing, but it pays not at all and it has such a small circulation that it says,
they're going to make much of a reputation.
And that's really, really about it.
The trouble is it's not economical to do magazines anymore.
Any magazine that cannot be advertised or supported isn't terrible trouble because they not only have trouble getting shelf space when they're local newsstands,
they have equal trouble just in postage rates alone with a subscription limit.
Probably expensive to do magazines.
Okay, listen, we're just about running out of tape. There are a lot more things.
I'm enjoying this talking to you immensely, but I'm thinking we're taking a lot of your time and we are running out of tape.
Well, I don't mind time that much.
Yeah, well, I was going to ask you, I think this is all the tape we brought for the interview.
We're probably going to end here, but listen.
I warned you.
Yeah, well listen, I was going to ask you if there's anything that, any topics or anything you'd like to add or that you'd like to get on the air or anything like that.
Oh, I can't really think of anything. I can go for hours on it.
Yeah, that's sort of a dumb question.
But listen, what we'd like to do perhaps is, oh, I don't know, some of your future books come out, maybe call, call you up, date some of the things and do a, do another show on, see, because our shows, what we do is we get this, you know, this interview and then we, we edit them into five minute shows.
We're on the air every day.
And so, you know, calling you up sometime, maybe one of your books comes out and getting some more information, doing a spot show on that here and there might be a big help to us too.
That'd be fine with me. So, no trouble at all.
Yeah, and, am I going to hear any of these shows?
Well, okay, the situation is this.
We were on the air for one year locally here in West Texas.
Once a, once a week, 30 minute show.
Okay, we sent some sample tapes to, well, to the Longhorn Radio Network, which is a national network.
They liked it and said, okay, we'll take it for national distribution, national syndication, but we want a five minute format for every day of the week, which is a tremendous change for us.
So, we have been retooling and regearing for that and we start, we start nationally, I guess, the first of April.
And we don't know which stations are picking it up because the brochure has just been mailed.
Yeah, listen, we will send you copies of the tapes and when we,
Oh, we will do that and when we find out which stations are picking it up, we can even let you know that, but it's really up to the, any station in the country that wants it can pick it up.
So, we don't know how many are going to take it as of yet.
Because I can tell you when, when and if I know it's coming, you're going to put it in this area.
I can notify you, Valentine pocket.
Yeah. Those types of your PR department can, yeah, can hype it and that's fine.
Promotion is a lot in this business.
Well, yeah, we're, yeah, we're beginning to realize that that's absolutely true.
We're working on some angles too that are going to help us some, we think.
But yeah, we will let you know, we'll give you the tapes, we'll let you know when they give us some dates and some stations, we will let you know.
I'd like to hear how it airs.
Oh, surely, yeah.
And then surely we're hearing it over the air, although I would like to know pretty much.
Yeah.
For publicity purposes, I'd like to know where it's going, but just out of curiosity, I'd like to hear it come down.
Sure, well, yeah, well, the tapes that we would send here would be the air copies.
You know, they'd be the ones that would be on the air, so you could tell from that too.
Yeah.
Okay, well, listen, that was immensely interesting.
We sure appreciate your time, Mr. Chalker.
And I'll be waiting for your future books, all of us will, we're all fans of your work.
We've got two coming out this year, we've got the third of the four lords and we've got Dene DeMatrix.
Yeah.
And Ballantine is reissuing almost my whole backlist.
Yeah, that's great.
So then, well, see, that's where the money is.
Yeah.
That's really where the money is.
It's once you've paid off, once they've sold enough that your advance has long since gone and just twice a year you get these marvelous checks,
and you have to do another thing for them.
And the more of those books you can keep in print, the more money you get.
Well, I hope the movies come through too.
Well, I'd love that because that would help all the books.
Yeah.
And would allow me to do some other stuff.
And I have not found any trouble, by the way, selling mainstream.
Yeah.
As a matter of fact, thanks to John Jakes and people like that, it's not bad at all to have a science fiction writer walk in.
Hey, I've got this book or this series.
They're very impressed with science fiction writers now in the mainstream, but they don't, of course, they don't want science fiction books.
Yeah.
Unless you already have the movie tie-in or you have this movie, blockbuster, so that you can do a Stephen King.
In which case, then, they don't want you to write science fiction anymore.
Yeah.
Well, okay then, listen, we better let you go.